The two devolution campaigns, the first in 1979 and the second in 1997, did you follow those debates on television?
I followed them as best I could, but to be quite honest I had very little interest in the first one.
I didn't think we were ready for it and so it turned out. It was an almighty defeat.
I think the majority of the Welsh people felt like I did, that perhaps the time wasn't right.
And it was in 1979 wasn't it? Callaghan's government. Well he was ready to go anyway,
everybody knew that. So I thought, I think there was a bit of a backlash in that,
with unemployment being quite high and his government likely to be kicked out if they
hadn't already been. I can't remember what month of the year it was, when was it?
It was March wasn't it? Well he was definitely in power then wasn't it, because the election was until
later with Marvin Thatcher. And I think it was a backlash because his government had
sort of pushed the idea or presented the idea, offered it. Most Welsh people decided no,
we're not doing it. But of course when it came to 1997 there were different propositions altogether
by then, because in the meantime television had played their part in a big way. Margaret Thatcher
had united Wales in a sense, for the wrong reasons perhaps, but united it nevertheless.
And therefore there was a growing feeling that perhaps Wales would be better off on their own
without the, I mean we've had to suffer the English for the last 800 years haven't we?
I like your, if they get a no vote today it'll carry on for a few long, much longer you know.
Are you able to get home and vote or what? Yes. You are? Yeah. Oh you have to open until 10 isn't it?
That's right. Yeah I've got to go down later. No the, I think the, and I mean
in 97 they only just scraped through didn't they? 50 to 40, 50 point something to 49 point something.
And it's strange really because Wales has always been a radical country, a country of radicals if
you like. Chartist movement and Quakers, non-conformists, Wesleyans, Methodists and so forth.
I mean I'm Annie Bunworth, my father was a Wesleyan Methodist, my mother was a Baptist.
Lots of my friends were Quakers. I mean America's built on Quakerism a lot of it.
It started off, the Mormons were in the same type, from the same ilk, a lot of Welsh people were
So I think we were ready for some change and I think,
I can't see that the Welsh Assembly has done any harm to be quite honest and a lot of good.
I see Scotland are following Wales now with free prescriptions.
So they must have done something right. There's always the feeling amongst the Welsh,
amongst the working class that MPs who've never done a decent day's work in their lives,
I'm quoting other people now, are all for what they can get out of it themselves. Well
that's unfortunate but it's because of the MP expenses which TB highlighted as well as the
newspapers that has caused people to be angry about things. So as soon as people nowadays like
the Welsh Assembly Ministers put forward an idea, Welsh in particular, they go,
what's he saying that for? What are they going to get out of it you see? And that's why people
are worried like my wife. What's it going to cost us if they get a yes vote you know?
But at the same time is it right that what we want to do in Wales should be governed by
people in England? What was, oh yeah, Trwydyn. Because I can remember Trwydyn and Capel Celyn
getting drowned and at the time it was evident that all 40 odd Welsh MPs had voted against it
and they were outvoted by their English counterparts because they were in the majority.
What sort of a democracy was that sort of thing you know? When Liverpool could have got
their water from Cumbria, the wettest part of the United Kingdom, apart from Wales, and the irony
of it was that once they'd flooded Capel Celyn to create Trwydyn, there were houses overlooking
the reservoir who couldn't get water because Liverpool wouldn't supply pipe water to them.
And oh my god you know, if we could cast ourselves adrift and float away like Ireland,
river between us or water between us, we'd be better off I think.